Solution for Flood Monitoring and Warning System
One of the world’s leading reinsurers, overall losses from natural disasters in 2016 was approx 175 billion worldwide.Among all disasters, floods were ranked sixth. Hence to precisely predict flood events and efficiently minimize resulting losses has become a high priority.  
Flooding and excessive rainfall can cause considerable disruption or damage to critical assets and infrastructure. Water treatment plants, for example, are typically located near water bodies, and many of them are situated on flood plains. Thus, implementing an effective FMDS at such facilities requires overcoming challenges in network deployment, particularly because the system must be able to function under high humidity and handle acute changes in temperature in order to provide timely reporting on environmental conditions.
Design Thinking and Solution
·  The Solution The ability to track data such as rainfall, ground saturation, and upstream water levels enables companies and utility services to receive early flood warnings and take preventative action.
·  Even for the many similar systems that are already in place, their effectiveness can be improved by adopting the Wzzard LRPv series of products.
·  Advantech's Wzzard LRPv LoRaWAN nodes and WISE-6610 LoRaWAN gateways can be used to establish low-power wireless sensor networks with LoRaWAN technology, and this can enable the reporting of data to your computer or cloud application via a central network gateway.
·  Your software can then combine your data with third-party information such as weather reports from national weather services.
·  This enables your system to make intelligent decisions such as issuing in-time SMS notifications to the public for evacuation, signaling and broadcasting disaster warnings, and convening emergency response teams.
LoRaWAN solution, a highly integrated LoRa sensing platform for applications ranging from I/O sensor data management to network protocol conversion, can be utilized to form a sensor network, paying immediate dividends by cutting maintenance costs while increasing overall productivity. Wzzard LRPv network gateways connect to your application server or SCADA for data access using the MQTT protocol via either an Ethernet or wireless data network.
